[seething]
Hadlar: Zaboera!
Yes, my Lord?
I want you to summon the
Mystic Legion, immediately.
I'll call upon
my elite guards.
We'll gather all of our
remaining forces
and launch a
mass offensive.
The boy and his pathetic
allies will not survive.
W-wait just a minute,
Lord Hadlar!
That plan has already
failed us one time before.
Dai's party will not be defeated
by numbers alone, understand?
A carefully-planned
assassination
is our best option right now!
Allow old Zaboera
to handle this one.
You see, my friend...
the victor is not
simply the strongest;
a victor is one who survives to
the end by any means necessary.
[frustrated growl]
Crocodine: Let her sleep.
She's been using
Fullheal nonstop
to tend to everyone's wounds.
It was a very difficult fight.
We're lucky we all survived.
Crocodine: What's wrong?
The fight isn't quite
over yet, isn't it?
Baran may be gone,
but the Dark Army remains.
If we're attacked now,
we won't have a chance.
I'll stand guard.
You're in no
condition for that.
Popp: Dai's right.
The half-dead ones should
probably take it easy.
Dai: Popp!
Why don't you just leave
guard duty to me, gang?
Are you crazy?
The rest of us
might be half-dead,
but you're the one who
was completely dead.
You need the rest more
than all of us combined!
That's just it.
I'm not sure why, but now
that I think about it,
I feel better than
I did before I died.
Save your bravado.
Popp: Yeah?
Well, see for yourself;
is this just "bravado?"
That was a Sizz spell!
That level of focus
in your magic power
should be impossible.
See? It's weird, but...
For some reason I'm
in tip-top shape today.
Fine, then.
It looks like you're in the
best state out of all of us.
Don't you worry about
a thing, everybody.
If things get ugly, I'll be
sure to give you a shout.
Hyunckel: It's been said...
that drinking the blood
of a legendary dragon
can grant immortality.
If that's actually true,
then Baran may have
something to do with
all of Popp's
newfound strength.
Dai: You think?
Then if you drink my blood,
will you all get stronger?
[laughing]
Baran said your blood is
closer to that of a human's.
I just thought that
if I had that power,
I could make it so all
my friends are immortal.
Don't you worry, Dai.
We're not going anywhere,
anytime soon.
And that includes Popp.
Popp: Maybe it was bravado,
but this is the least I
can do if I want to be useful.
My big last stand
was a total failure,
and I end up getting
saved by my enemy.
Talk about embarrassing.
But I won't miss twice.
No, Gomechan, I'm not going
to cast Megante again.
I just meant that I won't
mess up like I did last time.
Merle [thought]: I knew
something wasn't right...
I'm going to survive
until the end, buddy.
C'mon, didn't I tell you that?
What do you mean
you don't remember?
Gomechan, you really
are a mystery.
Maybe you're some
kind of guardian angel.
Merle [thought]: Please, Popp.
Don't push yourself too hard.
Popp: Who's there?
Show yourself.
Maam: Things sound rough.
You need a hand?
Th-That voice...
Popp: Maam!
I-Is it... really you?
[laughing]
C'mon, have you forgotten
your friend's face already?
Of course I haven't!
Merle [thought]:
So, that's Maam.
Another one of
the Disciples of Avan.
Popp looks so
happy to see her.
Merle [thought]:
But, wait a sec...
What about your
martial-arts training?
So, are you done, or what?
Huh?
I bet you were
top of the class!
Oh, right! That...
The teacher wasn't
all that great, really.
And then I got so
worried about you guys.
Popp [thought]: But... Maam
never gives up on anything...
Merle [thought]:
I don't know why,
but I'm getting
a strange feeling.
There's something
sinister about her.
Merle [thought]: What am
I saying? Am I just jealous?
Maam: What's wrong?
Nothing! Just forget it.
Everyone's going to be so
relieved that you're back!
Popp: They're in
for a real surprise.
Huh?
Slow down, Popp.
They're probably all asleep
and exhausted from
fighting, right?
We really shouldn't wake them.
Besides, I'd like to stay
out here a little longer.
Popp [thought]:
W-what's that... sweet smell?
I feel woozy.
Maam: Popp...
Popp [thought]:
I-I can't believe it.
Is... Maam, actually...
Oh, Popp...
M-Maam...
Sweet dreams!
Ow! What do you
think you're doing?!
I made a new friend and I
thought I'd bring them along.
Popp: What?!
You've already met.
Popp: H-Hadlar?
Wait, then you're...
[evil chuckle]
Popp: I've heard of you!
I'm Mystic Bishop Zaboera.
You seemed a little
on edge, so I borrowed
your friend's likeness
with a little Morph spell.
I understand you're
quite fond her.
Y-You dirty...
Hadlar: So, it worked.
Yes.
[smug chuckle]
Popp [thought]:
I can't move.
What did you do to me?
Zaboera: Let me
explain, young mage...
My body is filled with hundreds
of different poisons, you see...
So I used my claws
to inject you with
the most potent neurotoxin
I had at my disposal.
Help me...
Zaboera: No one is
going to hear you.
Zaboera: Besides...
thanks to the Dark Incense
I've been diffusing,
all of your friends
are in a slumber
deeper than
the deepest ocean.
The boy and his allies
are now unable to
resist any attack,
Lord Hadlar.
Hadlar: Good.
Zaboera: I didn't
expect this one to resist
the Dark Incense, though.
Perhaps he's gained some
kind of special power.
That's just the
Disciples of Avan for you.
They gain they're power
when you're not watching
and then bare their fangs.
I'll have to take care
of this one here and now.
Popp: I'm disappointed, Hadlar.
What?!
You were always cruel,
but you never played dirty.
At least the last time
we fought, you still had...
the dignity of a commander
on the battlefield.
But now...
You're just resorting to
the dirty tricks
of this old gremlin?
Oh, how the mighty
have fallen.
You shut your mouth!
In battle, there is no
method that I won't use.
Victory is the only option!
You know, Crocodine once
said the same thing...
But in the end,
he realized the truth.
He realized that...
There are more
important things
than winning or
losing a fight!
You think you can lecture
the great Lord Hadlar?
It'll be my honor to
finish you off myself!
A little bit more poison
should do the job...
[evil snickering]
Time to die!
[pained shrieking]
What?!
Get your filthy
little paws off of him.
Who are you?
M-Mentor... Matoriv.
You moron, you let
them deceive you.
You need to work harder
on your perception.
Popp: Sorry, Mentor.
Never forget this;
the Mage must always
be the most focused
and level-headed
member of their party.
Everybody else is
allowed to get worked up,
but you need to stay cool as ice
and understand the situation.
At least that was what I
did when working with Avan.
Now I recognize you.
You sided with Avan
and his resistance.
They said that you
were the most powerful
Grand Sorcerer
among the humans.
Yeah, and I see you're
still a third-rate Dark Lord.
How dare you?!
Matoriv: You just
won't give up,
so now I have to
play clean-up.
On top of that, you killed
one of my only friends.
He was a good guy,
as well. He really was.
And he wasn't even
a third of my age.
Roka... Avan...
All the good ones are gone,
and crooks like you and me
just keep getting away with it.
What an ugly world this is.
Matoriv: So, here's the deal.
I'm sending you
to the afterlife
so you can apologize
to the Hero Avan!
Stupid old man - you'll see!
Just one spell...
And you'll be ashes!
Sizzle.
Squelch.
Hadlar [thought]:
Two spells at once?
[weak groan]
Matoriv [thought]:
He's not healing right away.
That poison must be
incredibly powerful.
Now, let's see...
How about this?!
Kasizz!
Hadlar: It can't be...
There's no way!
Kasizz!
H-How can a mere human
conjure a Kasizz spell?!
That should be impossible!
Did you really think you
were the only one who could?
Get over yourself.
Hadlar [thought]:
I'm losing...
Is his Magic Power
greater than mine?!
[whimpering]
Hadlar: Zaboera!
Hadlar: Hurry up and help me!
This is for my arm!
Sizzle!
[sinister laugh]
It's moments like these
when I wish I was younger.
My body just isn't able
to keep up with the spell.
Popp [thought]: N-No.
My mentor is in danger.
At this rate everyone in
the cabin will die, too.
No... C'mon you guys...
Please, wake up!
Crocodine! Hyunckel!
Leona! Dai... Dai!
It seems like you've
reached your limit.
In the end, you're the
one who'll be seeing Avan!
We've done it!
[victorious chuckle]
[shocked gasp]
Zaboera: Dai?!
Yes!
Dai!
But, how - the boy is
supposed to be asleep!
I heard Popp...
he was calling out to me!
That's impossible!
Now, you'll see...
This is what happens when
you try and hurt my friends!
Curse you, boy!
Never again,
do you understand me?
Sizzle!
[shrieking]
Matoriv [thought]: He focused
all his power into his fist
and reflected their Sizzle
spells with one of his own.
Matoriv [thought]:
Even I can't do that.
Are you okay?
Y-Yeah...
You did it!
I've never seen anything hit
with that much Heat-energy.
Hadlar's gonna be
done for sure, right?
I don't know about that.
He is getting stronger.
I'm sorry. Once again,
you're the one saving me.
But, uh...
You know, I appreciated
what you said about us.
You know we've always
got your back too, right?
[laughing]
You two are soft.
What happened?
Hyunckel: Th-This is...
Crocodine: Unbelievable.
How did we sleep through
an explosion this size?!
Zaboera and Hadlar
were just here.
Both: W-What?!
Zaboera: [pained groan]
Thank the gods for Zoom spells.
Those filthy little brats!
I doubt that Hadlar
survived the blast, as well.
After all the help I gave
him, he's still useless!
Now I'll have to seek
favor with Mystvearn...
[startled grunt]
-[growling]
-Zaboera: [shrieking]
L-Lord Hadlar?!
Hadlar: Zaboera,
you can't betray me.
Like it or not, you and
I are in the same boat.
If you trying latching on to
someone else, I'll destroy you!
You think I won't?
I see every move
you make, my friend-
even all your research on
the history of Superior Beings!
What?!
I think it's time for you to
share your efforts with me...
But, why?!
The Disciples of Avan are
growing stronger every day.
Much too fast.
This body King Vearn gifted
me isn't enough to keep up.
I need even greater power...
Power like that
Dragonoid, Baran!
Hadlar: My strength
must be greater
than anything
they've ever seen!
The entire world will tremble!
Matoriv: I see. That explains
the crest on your hand.
Impressive power.
I'm alive because of you.
Hyunckel: We're sorry.
We fell into a trap cast
by Zaboera of all people.
You shouldn't
blame yourselves.
If anything I'd blame the one
who let his silly emotions
cloud his judgement.
[nonchalant whistling]
Crocodine:
I can't believe that
Hadlar went along with
one of Zaboera's schemes.
He's always preferred
the brute force approach.
He probably realized
he's outmatched...
Now that he's learned
the Hero is the son of
the legendary Dragon Knight,
he's starting
to get desperate.
To trust Zaboera,
he'd have to be.
The Dark Army must be facing
some real changes
within their ranks.
Popp: Hey, Mentor,
you knew something was different
about Dai, didn't you?
Yeah.
Don't you think
you should have
shared that information
a little earlier?
Also, you really
took your precious time
showing up, didn't you?
Matoriv: I knew that
learning the prophecy of
the Dragon Knight would be
a great burden to you, Dai.
There's nothing I can
do to help with that.
I only know one person who
could... so I dug this up.
What, some dirty old book?
Popp: This mark... Is it...
It's Master Avan's!
Right. This is the
legendary "Book of Avan."
Both: Book of Avan?!
Matoriv: Avan the Hero recorded
all of his skills, spells,
and the theories behind
them for future generations.
It's hand-written.
It contains his entire legacy.
In all of our training Master
never mentioned this before.
I found it in the Library
of Carl, his homeland.
I figured that perhaps you
would make better use of it.
Matoriv: Check the passage
on Air-based skills.
Page one-ninety-two.
It has three parts.
The Book of Earth
is about combat,
while Sea is
about the aura's...
And the Book of Air
is all about the soul.
Uh...
"To the... and..."
Leona, could you?
I can't read very well.
Leona: "To the
wounded and lost.
Defeat is not to
fall from your wounds.
It is when you lose yourself
after you have fallen...
Avan: Be strong of heart.
Calmly consider your goals and
the limits of your abilities...
For we are all limited
in what we can do.
When each of us does
the best that we can,
even when we are on the
very edge of despair,
the path to victory will
reveal itself in all its glory,
and shine brightly
before you."
Dai [thought]: It's like Master
is right here - in the room.
Popp [thought]: He always
said it best, didn't he?
Hyunckel [thought]: Avan...
Matoriv: Anyways, I thought
you might be interested.
Just take good
care of it, okay?
Thank you so much, Matoriv.
"The limits of our
abilities," huh?
Leona: Let's
return to Papnica.
Leona: I want to do
the very best that I can.
Something that benefits
the world in a way...
that fighting has
yet to achieve.
Something that only I can do.
Dai!
We're going!
Dai: Okay!
Narrator: After
returning to Papnica,
Dai and his friends prepare
for their next battle.
And when they learn of a martial
arts tournament in Romos,
where the victor can
win a legendary item,
Dai and Popp decide to compete.
But, when they catch a glimpse
of the reigning champion,
their astonishment knocks
them out of the ring.
So don't miss
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Romos Martial
Arts Tournament"